# Lane-Detection-using-OpenCV
This project has the ability to detect lanes on any road clearly, in front of the camera. It uses C++ as the operational language and OpenCV as the working software.The Basic Idea behind the project is the use of a Camera to detect lanes on a road. This project is focused in the computer vision aspect of it, a crucial module. If an automated car is going to drive around unpredictable environments, it has to be able to perceive and detect every small detail that surrounds it.By using a video feed input of a car driving on the highway, the algorithm will detect where the lane is so that the car can use its location to avoid getting out of the it. It will also be able to predict any turn on the road to secure a good tracking of the lane. Most roads such as highways have at least two lanes, one for traffic in each direction, separated by lane markings.Major highways often have two roadways separated by a median, each with multiple lanes. To detect these road lanes some system must be employed that can help the driver to drive safely. Despite the perceived simplicity of finding white markings on a simple road, it can be very difficult to determine lane markings on various types of road. These difficulties can be shadows, occlusion by other vehicles, changes in the road surfaces itself, and different types of lane markings. A lane detection system must be able to detect all manner of markings from roadways and filter them to produce a reliable estimate of the vehicle position relative to the lane. To detect road markings and road boundaries various methodologies are used like Hough Transform, Canny edge detection algorithm, bilateral filter.

Steps Taken:
0. Input Images/Video
1. Denoise the image
2. Edge detection
3. Mask image to get the region of interest
4. Hough Line transformation
5. Separate lines into left and right
6. Regression to left and right lines
7. Turn Prediction
8. Output video

One obvious assumption is that the lane is oriented to be parallel with the direction of movement. Image distortion occurs when a camera looks at 3D objects in the real world and transforms them into a 2D image; this transformation isn’t perfect. Distortion actually changes what the shape and size of these 3D objects appear to be. So, the first step in analysing camera images, is to undo this distortion so that you can get correct and useful information out of them.The problems I encountered were almost exclusively due to lighting conditions, shadows, discoloration, etc. It wasn't difficult to detect the lane on the project video, even on the lighter-gray bridge sections that comprised the most difficult sections of the video.
On the other hand, the model didn't perform well on the challenge video and the harder challenge. The lane lines don't necessarily occupy the same pixel value (speaking of the L channel of the HLS color space) range on this video that they occupy on the first video, so the normalization/scaling technique helped here quite a bit, although it also tended to create problems (large noisy areas activated in the binary image) when the white lines didn't contrast with the rest of the image enough. This would definitely be an issue in snow or in a situation where, for example, a bright white car was driving among dull white lane lines. This would definitely be an issue in snow or in a situation where, for example, a bright white car was driving among dull white lane lines. One way to solve this issue is to apply smoothing to the video output by averaging the last n found good fits. We can also invalidate fits if the left and right base points aren't a certain distance apart (within some tolerance) under the assumption that the lane width will remain relatively constant.Other ways to improve the model include more dynamic thresholding, perhaps considering separate threshold parameters for different horizontal slices of the image, or dynamically selecting threshold parameters based on the resulting number of activated pixels, designating a confidence level for fits and rejecting new fits that deviate beyond a certain amount, or rejecting the right fit (for example) if the confidence in the left fit is high and right fit deviates too much (enforcing roughly parallel fits).
To predict possible Lane departure, camera is mounted on the windshield of the car to determine the layout of roads and determines the position of the vehicle on line Lane. The resulting sequence of images is analysed and processed by the proposed system, which automatically detects the Lane lines. The results showed of the proposed system to work well in a variety of settings, In addition computer response system is inexpensive and almost real time. Various methods and functions have been used in the implementation of the lane detection system. Some of these methods were pre-written by other coders and their definition was already done and the knowledge of their implementation alone was sufficient for the project. The main concept was the thorough understanding of the concepts of Hough lines, edge detection method, masking and turn prediction. The knowledge about how an image or a video frame is rendered as a matrix data type is also gained and how the matrix manipulation effects the images or video frames in picture. Implementation of the pre-written functions in a proper way is to be noted and it must be well thought out. Basic algebra must also be put into picture as one needs to use the same for identifying the correct side of the image and divide the points in the picture accordingly. Detailed understanding of how an image is converted to grey scale by the thoughtful manipulation of image matrices is also seen and its importance is noted duly.
